# Configure your API for serving documentation for itself

The [OpenAPI standard](https://www.openapis.org) offers a way to
describe the various endpoints of your api in machine- and
human-readable way. On top of this, various solutions have been build to
generate online documentation of the API based on a provided OpenAPI
spec. plumber2 offers support for [RapiDoc](https://rapidocweb.com),
[Redoc](https://redocly.com/redoc), and [Swagger](https://swagger.io) as
a UI frontend for the documentation and will also generate the spec for
you based on the tags in parsed files. If you are creating your API
programmatically or you wish to add to the autogenerated docs you can
add docs manually, either when adding a handler (using the `doc`
argument), or with the `api_doc_add()` function

## Usage

``` r
api_doc_setting(api, doc_type, doc_path, ...)

api_doc_add(api, doc, overwrite = FALSE, subset = NULL)
```

## Arguments

- api:

  A plumber2 api object to add docs or doc settings to

- doc_type:

  The type of API documentation to generate. Can be either `"rapidoc"`
  (the default), `"redoc"`, `"swagger"`, or `NULL` (equating to not
  generating API docs)

- doc_path:

  The URL path to serve the api documentation from

- ...:

  plumber files or directories containing plumber files to be parsed in
  the given order. The order of parsing determines the final order of
  the routes in the stack. If `...` contains a `_server.yml` file then
  all other files in `...` will be ignored and the `_server.yml` file
  will be used as the basis for the API

- doc:

  A list with the OpenAPI documentation, usually constructed with [one
  of the helper
  functions](https://plumber2.posit.co/reference/openapi.md)

- overwrite:

  Logical. Should already existing documentation be removed or should it
  be merged together with `doc`

- subset:

  A character vector giving the path to the subset of the docs to assign
  `doc` to

## Value

These functions return the `api` object allowing for easy chaining with
the pipe

## Using annotation

When using annotated route files documentation is automatically
generated based on the annotation. The following tags will contribute to
documentation:

- `@title`

- `@description`

- `@details`

- `@tos`

- `@license`

- `@contact`

- `@tag`

- `@param`

- `@query`

- `@body`

- `@response`

- `@parsers`

- `@serializers`

Documentation is only generated for annotations related to global
documentation (a block followed by the `"_API"` sentinel), request
handlers (a block including one of `@get`, `@head`, `@post`, `@put`,
`@delete`, `@connect`, `@options`, `@trace`, `@patch`, or `@any`), or
report generation (a block including `@report`)

## Examples

``` r
# Serve the docs from a different path
api() |>
  api_doc_setting(doc_path = "__man__")
#> ── A plumber server ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
#> Serving on http://127.0.0.1:8080
#> Currently not running

# Add documentation to the api programmatically
api() |>
  api_doc_add(openapi(
    info = openapi_info(
      title = "My awesome api",
      version = "1.0.0"
    )
  ))
#> ── A plumber server ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
#> Serving on http://127.0.0.1:8080
#> Currently not running

# Add documentation to a subset of the docs
api() |>
  api_doc_add(
    openapi_operation(
      summary = "Get the current date",
      responses = list(
        "200" = openapi_response(
          description = "Current Date",
          content = openapi_content(
            "text/plain" = openapi_schema(character())
          )
        )
      )
    ),
    subset = c("paths", "/date", "get")
  )
#> ── A plumber server ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
#> Serving on http://127.0.0.1:8080
#> Currently not running
```
